LONG and LONG RAW data types 
=================================================

When one or more `LONG` or `LONG RAW` columns are selected in a query, OceanBase Connector/J transmits these columns to the client in streaming mode. 

In streaming mode, OceanBase Connector/J generally does not read data of a `LONG` or `LONG RAW` column from the network. Before OceanBase Connector/J calls the `getXXX` method to read the column data, the column data is retained on the network communication channel. If an operation other than data reading is performed, the column data will be discarded from the channel. In streaming mode, the memory capacity is fully utilized, and the round-trip communication is minimized, but other database operations are affected. 

To access data in a `LONG` column, you can treat this column as a `Java InputStream` object, and use the `read` method of the `InputStream` object to obtain the data. You can also treat the data as a `String` or `byte` array, and obtain the data through stream transmission. 

You can obtain `LONG` and `LONG RAW` data by using all the three types of data streams. OceanBase Connector/J converts the data based on the character sets of the database and OceanBase Connector/J. 
**Notice**



Do not create tables with a `LONG` column. Instead, you can use `LOB`, `CLOB`, `NCLOB`, or `BLOB` columns. Use limits on `LOB` columns are far less than those on `LONG` columns. Therefore, we recommend that you convert the existing `LONG` columns into `LOB` columns.

Convert LONG RAW data 
---------------------------------------

The `getBinaryStream` method returns `RAW` data. The `getAsciiStream` method converts `RAW` data into hexadecimal data and returns the corresponding ASCII values. The `getUnicodeStream` method converts `RAW` data into hexadecimal data and returns Unicode characters. 

Convert LONG data 
-----------------------------------

When you call the `getAsciiStream` method to obtain `LONG` data, OceanBase Connector/J assumes that the `US7ASCII` or `WE8ISO8859P1` character set is used for the underlying data in the database. If the assumption is true, OceanBase Connector/J returns the bytes corresponding to the ASCII characters. If the database is not using the `US7ASCII` or `WE8ISO8859P1` character set, the `getAsciiStream` method returns meaningless information. 

When the `getUnicodeStream` method is used to obtain `LONG` data, the method returns a UTF-16-encoded Unicode character stream. 

When the `getBinaryStream` method is used to obtain `LONG` data, if the database is not using the `US7ASCII` or `WE8ISO8859P1` character set, the method returns UTF-8-encoded data. If the server uses the `US7ASCII` or `WE8ISO8859P1` character set, the method returns `US7ASCII` byte streams. 
**Notice**



When a `LONG` or `LONG RAW` column is received as a stream, observe the order of the columns retrieved from the database.

The following table describes the conversion of different types of `LONG` and `LONG RAW` data streams. 


| **Data type** |                                                                                              **BinaryStream**                                                                                              |                         **AsciiStream**                          |                 **UnicodeStream**                  |
|---------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------|
| LONG          | Bytes represent Unicode UTF-8-encoded characters. If the database uses the `US7ASCII` or `WE8ISO8859P1` character set, these bytes represent characters in the `US7ASCII` or `WE8ISO8859P1` character set. | Bytes represent ISO-Latin-1 (`WE8ISO8859P1`)-encoded characters. | Bytes represent Unicode UTF-16-encoded characters. |
| LONG RAW      | Data remains unchanged.                                                                                                                                                                                    | Data is converted into ASCII hexadecimal bytes.                  | Data is converted into Unicode hexadecimal bytes.  |



Examples 
--------------------------

The `getXXXStream` method is able to return data in an incremental manner, while the `getBytes` method returns all data in one call. The following examples show how to obtain a binary data stream. 

**Example 1: Use the getBinaryStream method to obtain LONG RAW data** 

1. Create table `stream01` that stores the `LONG RAW` column related to the name `SAMPLE`. 

   ```sql
   CREATE TABLE stream01 (name VARCHAR2 (50), giftype LONG RAW);
   INSERT INTO stream01 VALUES ('SAMPLE', '1234567890123');
   ```

   

2. Write the data in the `LONG RAW` column to the `sample.gif` file. 

   ```java
   ResultSet rs = st.executeQuery 
   ("select giftype from stream01 where NAME='SAMPLE'");
   ```

   

3. Use the `getBinaryStream` method to obtain `LONG RAW` data 

   ```java
   // Obtain the first row.
   if (rs.next())
   {
       // Obtain GIF data as a stream.
       InputStream gif_type = rs.getBinaryStream (1);
      try
      {
         FileOutputStream file = null;
         file = new FileOutputStream ("sample.gif");
         int chunk;
         while ((chunk = gif_type.read()) != -1)
            file.write(chunk);
      }
      catch (Exception e)
      {
         String err = e.toString();
         System.out.println(err);
      }
      finally
      {
         if file != null()
            file.close();
      }
   } 
   ```

   




In this example, the `InputStream` object returned by the `getBinaryStream` method directly reads data from the database connection. 

**Example 2: Use the getBytes method to obtain LONG RAW data** 

In this example, the `getBytes` method is used to obtain content of the `giftype` column. OceanBase Connector/J obtains all data in one call and stores the data in a byte array. 

```java
ResultSet rs2 = st.executeQuery 
                  ("select giftype from streame01 where NAME='SAMPLE'"); 

// Obtain the first row.
if (rs2.next())
{
   // Obtain GIF data as a stream.
   byte[] bytes = rs2.getBytes(1);
   try
   {
      FileOutputStream file = null;
      file = new FileOutputStream ("sample2.gif");
      file.write(bytes);
   }
   catch (Exception e)
   {
      String err = e.toString();
      System.out.println(err);
   }
   finally
   {
      if file != null()
         file.close();
   }
}
```



A `LONG RAW` column can contain up to 2 GB of data. Therefore, compared with the `getBinaryStream` method, the `getBytes` method uses more memory capacity. If the maximum size of data in the `LONG` or `LONG RAW` column is unknown, use a stream. 
**Note**



* OceanBase Connector/J can automatically transmit any `LONG` or `LONG RAW` column by using streams. However, in some cases, you may want to avoid stream transmission. For example, when the `LONG` column contains a small amount of data, you may expect the data to be returned in one call but not incrementally.

  

* To avoid stream transmission, use the `defineColumnType` method to redefine the type of the `LONG` column. For example, you can redefine the `LONG` or `LONG RAW` column into the `VARCHAR` or `VARBINARY` type, so OceanBase Connector/J does not automatically transmit data by using streams.

  




<!-- -->

* If you use the `defineColumnType` method to redefine the column type, you must declare the column type in the query. Otherwise, `executeQuery` will fail. In addition, you must convert the `Statement` object into `oceanbase.jdbc.oceanbaseStatement`.

  



