# OceanBase Connector/J V2.4.3

## Version information

* Release date: April 06, 2023

* Version: V2.4.3

## Overview

OceanBase Connector/J V2.4.3 supports the Show Trace feature based on the Full-link Trace feature and supports the parsing of LOB Locator v2. We recommend that you use this version for general business.

## Enhanced features

* The Show Trace feature based on the Full-link Trace feature is provided. You can run the Show Trace command to obtain the full-link tracing record of the last task in the session. For more information, see [Show Trace](../../300.user-guide/1200.show_trace.md).
* Parsing of LOB Locator v2 is supported in Oracle mode to adapt to the LOB optimization of the database kernel.
* The following three XA transaction-related flags are supported: `ORATMSERIALIZABLE`, `ORATRANSLOOSE`, and `ORATMREADONLY`, to enhance the compatibility with Oracle. For more information, see [XA components](../../400.reference-information/100.features-specific-to-oracle-mode/500.distributed-transactions/200.xa-components.md).


## Fixed issues

* In Oracle mode, the `setCharacterStream` and `setClob` APIs cannot distinguish between empty strings and empty LOBs, so that the query results are inconsistent with those in the Oracle database.
* When the JDBC LoadBalance feature is enabled, network issues cause data inconsistencies.
* When the JDBC LoadBalance feature is enabled, and the `OBLB_STRATEGY` parameter is not specified for a load balancing group, the global `OBLB_STRATEGY` setting does not take effect for the group either.

