# OceanBase Connector/J V2.4.2

## Version information

* Release date: February 9, 2023

* Version: V2.4.2

## Overview

OceanBase Connector/J V2.4.2 can obtain OceanBase Database Proxy (ODP) configurations from OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) to improve load balancing performance. Some issues related to compatibility and the OB2.0 protocol are fixed. The version is recommended for general businesses.

## Enhanced features

* OceanBase Connector/J V2.4.2 can obtain ODP configurations from OCP to improve load balancing performance. The following URL parameters are added.

| Parameter | Description | Default value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| ocpAccessInterval | The interval for accessing OCP, in minutes. | 5 |
| httpConnectTimeout | The timeout period for connecting to a network resource over HTTP, in milliseconds. This parameter is set when a communications link to the resource referenced by this URLConnection is opened.  | 0 (infinite) |
| httpReadTimeout | The timeout period for reading a network resource over HTTP when the URLConnection to the resource is established, in milliseconds. The value 0 indicates an infinite timeout period, which means not to specify a timeout period.  | 0 (infinite) |


## Fixed issues

* In MySQL mode, the behavior of the getImportedKeys API is not supported.
* In MySQL mode, the behavior to export DATATIME fields with the value of "0000-00-00 00:00:00" is not supported.
* In Oracle mode, an error is returned when the getDouble API obtains data of the `FLOAT` type by using the binary protocol.
* An error is returned because the `ORDER BY` keyword is not added to internal SQL requests of the getBestRowIdentifier API.
* The load balancing strategy configured by using an extended URL option does not take effect.
* In Oracle mode, an array cannot contain data of the `BLOB` type.
* In MySQL mode, the errors returned by APIs such as `SELECT ' '` and `getShort()` are inconsistent with those in the native driver.
* In MySQL mode, the return value of the `ResultSetMetaData.getColumnName()` API is inconsistent with that of the native driver.
* In MySQL mode, a composite index is inserted into rows but the `SELECT` statement returns an error.
* In MySQL and Oracle modes, after the result set is disabled, the behavior of `getMetaData()` is inconsistent with that of the native driver.
* In MySQL and Oracle modes, after the result set is disabled, the behavior of `getInt()` is inconsistent with that of the native driver.
* In MySQL mode, the return value of the ParameterMetaData API is inconsistent with that of the native driver.
* The client IP address is transparently transmitted because the getLocalAddress API returns '0.0.0.0' for the rich client.

