What's New 
===============================
#docslug#/connector-j/connector-j/V2.2.7/what-s-new
In OceanBase Connector/J V2.2.7, the performance of SEND PIECE, COM_STMT_PREPARE_EXECUTE, and PreparedStatement.setBytes in Oracle mode is enhanced, and the restrictions on Statement FetchSize and the conditions for using useCursorFetch to retrieve the result set are adjusted. 

Main feature changes in this version are as follows:

* In Oracle mode, SEND PIECE is disabled by default. To enable SEND PIECE, you must set `useServerPrepStmts=true and usePieceData=true`. For more information, see [COM_STMT_SEND_PIECE_DATA](4.features-specific-to-oracle-mode/1.binary-protocol/2.send-piece-function.md).

  

* In Oracle mode, COM_STMT_PREPARE_EXECUTE supports batch execution. For more information, see [COM_STMT_PREPARE_EXECUTE](4.features-specific-to-oracle-mode/1.binary-protocol/1.com_stmt_prepare_execute-protocol.md).

  

* In Oracle mode, the PreparedStatement.setBytes performance is optimized, and the time consumed for processing 32 KB of data is reduced from 60 ms to 15 ms. For more information, see [LOB data interface](3.user-guide/7.use-lob/2.lob-data-interface.md).

  




* The restrictions on Statement FetchSize are adjusted.

  * Statement FetchSize cannot be set to a negative number in Oracle mode. The default value is 10, which is the same as that in the native Oracle Java Database Connectivity (JDBC) driver.

    
  
  * In MySQL mode, Statement FetchSize cannot be set to any negative value except that of `Integer.MIN_VALUE`. The default value is 0, which is the same as that in the native MySQL JDBC driver.

    
  

  

  For more information, see [FetchSize](3.user-guide/9.result-set/3.fetch-size.md).
  

* The conditions for using useCursorFetch to retrieve the result set are adjusted.

  * In Oracle mode, when `useServerPrepStmts` is enabled, regardless of whether useCursorFetch is enabled, a cursor is used to retrieve data for `SELECT` queries.

    
  
  * In MySQL mode, when `useServerPrepStmts` is enabled, if useCursorFetch is enabled (`useServerPrepStmts=true`), the result set scroll type is `TYPE_FORWARD_ONLY`, the result set concurrency type is `recur_read_only`, and FetchSize is greater than 0, a cursor is used to retrieve data for `SELECT` queries.

    
  

  

  For more information, see [Result set overview](3.user-guide/9.result-set/1.result-set-type.md).
  



