Create a database connection 
=================================================
#docslug#/connector-j/connector-j/V2.2.7/open-connection-to-database
OceanBase Connector/J enables you to create a database connection by using DriverManager or a connection pool. 

Create a database connection by using DriverManager 
---------------------------------------------------------------------

We recommend that you use the DriverManager class to connect to OceanBase Connector/J. 

When you use the DriverManager class, set the parameters as follows to establish a connection to OceanBase Database:

```java
Connection connection = DriverManager.getConnection("jdbc:oceanbase://host:port/user=root&password=***");
```



Before you use DriverManager, you need to use `Class.forName` to load the class, and then use the IP address and port number of OceanBase Database to connect to the database. In other word, enter the corresponding IP address, port number, and schema name in `String url`. 

The following example shows complete sample code.

```java
import java.sql.Connection;
import java.sql.DriverManager;
import java.sql.SQLException;
public class HelloWorld {
   public static void main(String[] args) {
       try {
           String url = "jdbc:oceanbase://ipaddress:port/shemaname?pool=false";
           String  user = "username";
           String  password = "***";
           Class.forName("com.oceanbase.jdbc.Driver");
           Connection connection = DriverManager.getConnection(url, user, password);
       } catch (Throwable e) {
           e.printStackTrace();
       }
   }
```



After the database connection is established, you can perform steps in the following example to load the class. 

```java
javac -cp target/oceanbase-client-{version}.jar HelloWorld.java
java -cp .:target/oceanbase-client-{version}.jar HelloWorld
```





Create a database connection by using a connection pool 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

You can also connect to OceanBase Connector/J by using a connection pool. 

OceanBase Connector/J supports two types of datasource pools:

* `OceanbaseDataSource`: the basic implementation of a database connection. A connection is created each time you call the `getConnection()` method.

  

* `OceanbasePoolDataSource`: a connection pool implementation. The connection pool maintains connection resources. When a connection request is received, a connection is borrowed from the connection pool.

  




**Internal pool** 

The internal pool of OceanBase Connector/J provides a very fast pool implementation and solves the following problems found in the Java pool:

* Two different connection state cleanup modes are available after a connection is released.

  

* Inactive connections are automatically released. In a Java pool, connections are automatically released to avoid problems that may occur when the server closes connections after the `@wait_timeout` threshold is reached.

  




**External pool** 

You must configure the `com.oceanbase.jdbc.Driver` class when you use an external connection pool. 

Example: Use the HikariCP JDBC connection pool. 

```java
final HikariDataSource ds = new HikariDataSource();
ds.setMaximumPoolSize(10);
ds.setDriverClassName("com.oceanbase.jdbc.Driver");
ds.setJdbcUrl("jdbc:oceanbase://localhost:2883/db");
ds.addDataSourceProperty("user", "root");
ds.addDataSourceProperty("password", "OBClient");
ds.setAutoCommit(false);
```



