# Handle SQL exceptions

When an exception occurs, OceanBase Connector/J throws an SQL exception and generates an instance of the `java.sql.SQLException` class or its subclass to handle the exception.

The exception may originate from OceanBase Connector/J or the database. The error information describes the exception and identifies the method that caused the exception, and can also contain other running information.

The `SQLException` class supports the following basic exception handling operations: retrieving error messages, error codes, and SQL status, as well as printing the stack trace.

## Retrieve error information

The `SQLException` class provides the following methods for retrieving basic error information:

* `getMessage`

* `getErrorCode`

* `getSQLState`




Example: Call the `getMessage` method to display the output.

```java
catch(SQLException ecp)
{
   System.out.println("exception: " + ecp.getMessage());
}
```



The output for an error originated from OceanBase Connector/J is usually as follows:

```java
exception: Invalid column type
```



## Display the stack trace

The `SQLException` class provides the `printStackTrace()` method for displaying the stack trace. This method displays the stack trace of the throwable object based on the standard error stream. You can also specify a `java.io.PrintStream` or `java.io.PrintWriter` object to print the exception.

Example: Catch an SQL exception and print the stack trace.

```java
// SQL code example: Traverse the results and print the employee names.  
try {
       while (rs.next ())
       System.out.println (rs.getString (5));   // Assume that an invalid column index is used.
}
catch(SQLException ecp) { ecp.printStackTrace (); }

// Catch the SQL exception and print the stack trace.
try {
       <some code>
}
catch(SQLException ecp) {
      ecp.printStackTrace ();
}
```



The program generates the following error information:

```java
java.sql.SQLException: Invalid column index
at OceanBase.jdbc.driver.OceanBaseResultSetImpl.getDate(OceanBaseResultSetImpl.java:1556)
at emp.main(emp.java:41)
```


