# OceanBase Connector/J V2.4.1

## Version information

* Release date: December 15, 2022

* Version: V2.4.1

## Overview

OceanBase Connector/J V2.4.1 integrates the rich client feature in V2.3.0 and fixes many issues related to compatibility with MySQL. This version applies to general businesses. 

## Enhanced features

* The rich client feature is integrated to provide the routing logic of ODP in the driver. In this way, business requests are calculated in the driver and directly routed to the target OBServer node. As no load balancer is required, the access links are short. 
* The following options are provided: `obProxySocket`, `clobberStreamingResults`, `maxRows`, `zeroDateTimeBehavior`, `allowNanAndInf`, `defaultConnectionAttributesBanList`, and `enableOb20Checksum`. 
* A Java virtual machine (JVM) parameter is provided for users to export a header based on the OB2.0 protocol on their OS console. 
* Verification based on the OB2.0 protocol is supported. Users can specify whether to enable the verification by using a switch parameter. 

## Fixed issues

* Some MySQL compatibility issues. 
* The `setDate()` function triggers an exception when binary write is enabled. 
* If you set a value of the STRING type in an ARRAY or STRUCT object to another object type, the value is forcibly converted and an error is reported. 
* In Oracle mode, if you do not specify `schema` in a URL, the `getSchema()` function throws a null pointer exception after the connection is established. 
* An error occurs when you call the `getObject()` function to obtain data. 


<main id="notice" type='notice'>
   <h4>Notice</h4>
   <p>OceanBase Connector/J of this version uses some DatabaseMetaData APIs, such as getProcedures, getTables, getSchemas, getColumns, getFunctions, getTablePrivileges, getPrimaryKeys, getBestRowldentifier, getColumnPrivileges, and keysQuery, to return a result set. A call to <code>close</code> will cause infinite recursion. </p>
</main>