XA components 
==================================
#docslug#/connector-j/connector-j/V2.2.3/xa-components
XA components are standard XA interfaces specified in the Java Database Connectivity (JDBC) standard. 

XADatasource interface and Oracle implementation 
------------------------------------------------------------------

The `javax.sql.XADataSource` interface outlines the standard features of XA data sources and is the factory of XA connections. The `getXAConnection` method reloads and returns an XA connection instance and allows you to use the username and password as the input. See the following example:

```unknow
public interface XADataSource
{
   XAConnection getXAConnection() throws SQLException;
   XAConnection getXAConnection(String user, String password)
      throws SQLException;
   ...
}
```



JDBC uses the `OracleXADataSource` class to implement the `XADataSource` interface. The `OracleXADataSource` class extends the `OracleConnectionPoolDataSource` class, which extends the `OracleDataSource` class. Therefore, all connection attributes are included. 

The `getXAConnection` method of the `OracleXADataSource` class returns the Oracle implementation of XA connection instances, which are `OracleXAConnection` instances. 
**Note**



You can register XA data sources in Java Naming and Directory Interface (JNDI) by using naming conventions same as those for non-pooled data sources mentioned earlier.

XAConnection interface and Oracle implementation 
------------------------------------------------------------------

An XA connection instance, like a pooled connection instance, is encapsulated with a physical connection to the database. The database here refers to the database specified in the connection attributes of the XA data source instance that generates the XA connection instance. 

Each XA connection instance can also generate an OracleXAResource instance that corresponds to the XA connection instance and that will coordinate distributed transactions. 

An XA connection instance is an instance that implements a standard `javax.sql.XAConnection` interface class. See the following example:

```unknow
public interface XAConnection extends PooledConnection
{
   javax.jta.xa.XAResource getXAResource() throws SQLException;
}
```



The XAConnection interface extends the `javax.sql.PooledConnection` interface, and therefore includes the `getConnection`, `close`, `addConnectionEventListener`, and `removeConnectionEventListener` methods. 

JDBC uses the OracleXAConnection class to implement the XAConnection interface. The OracleXAConnection class is also extended to generate the OraclePooledConnection class. 

The `getXAResource` method of the OracleXAConnection class returns the Oracle implementation of an OracleXAResource instance. The `getConnection` method returns an OracleConnection instance. 

The JDBC connection instance returned by the XA connection instance serves as a temporary handle of the physical connection, rather than encapsulates the physical connection. The physical connection is encapsulated by the XA connection instance. Same as a regular connection, the physical connection obtains the connection behavior from the XAConnection object until it participates in a global transaction. At this point, the auto commit state is set to `false`. After the global transaction ends, the auto commit state will be reset to its original value before the global transaction. The default auto commit state obtained from XAConnection is `true`. 

Each time you call the `getConnection` method of the XA connection instance, a new connection instance that exhibits the default behavior is returned, and all previous connection instances returned by the same XA connection instance are closed. However, we recommend that you explicitly close previous connection instances before you open a new connection instance. 

The `close` method of the XA connection instance closes the physical connection to the database and is usually executed in the intermediate layer. 

XAResource interface and Oracle implementation 
----------------------------------------------------------------

The transaction manager uses the `OracleXAResource` instance to coordinate all the transaction branches of a distributed transaction. 

Each `OracleXAResource` instance provides the following key features to the transaction manager:

* Associates and de-associates a distributed transaction and the transaction branches running in the XA connection instance that generates the `OracleXAResource` instance. In essence, this feature associates the distributed transaction with physical connections or sessions encapsulated in the XA connection instance. This feature is implemented based on the transaction ID.

  

* Performs two-phase commit for a distributed transaction. This feature ensures that changes are not committed in a transaction branch before changes are applied to all transaction branches.

  



**Notice**



* Implicitly closes the `OracleXAResource` instance when the associated XA connection instance is closed, because the XA connection instance and the `OracleXAResource` instance must always be in one-to-one association.

  

* Closes a transaction by using an `OracleXAResource` instance same as the `OracleXAResource` instance specified for starting the transaction.

  




An `OracleXAResource` instance is an instance that implements the standard `javax.transaction.xa.XAResource` interface class. JDBC uses the `OracleXAResource` class to implement the `XAResource` interface. 

Each time the `getXAResource` method of the `OracleXAConnection` class is called, the JDBC driver creates and returns an `OracleXAResource` instance, and associates the `OracleXAResource` instance with a connection instance and with transaction branches that runs upon the connection. 

This method associates the `OracleXAResource` instance with a specific connection and transaction branches running in that connection. 

OracleXAResource method features and input parameters 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

The OracleXAResource class has several methods for coordinating transaction branches and the distributed transactions associated with the transaction branches. This feature typically involves a two-phase commit operation. 

The transaction manager that receives the `OracleXAResource` instance from an intermediate-layer component, such as an application server, usually calls this feature. 

Each of these methods uses the transaction ID as input in the form of an `Xid` instance, including the transaction branch ID component and the distributed transaction ID component. Each transaction branch has a unique transaction ID. Transaction branches that belong to the same global transaction share the same distributed transaction ID component. 

**Start** 

This method enables the transaction branch to work and associates it with the distributed transaction. Syntax:

```unknow
void start(Xid xid, int flags)
```



The `flags` parameter must be set to one or more of the following values:

* `XAResource.TMNOFLAGS`

  Mark the start of the new transaction branch as a subsequent operation in the session associated with this XA resource instance. The branch will have a transaction ID `xid`, which is an `OracleXid` instance created by the transaction manager. This operation maps the transaction branch to the corresponding distributed transaction.
  




<!-- -->

* `XAResource.TMJOIN`

  Join the subsequent operation in the session associated with this XA resource instance to the transaction branch specified by `xid`.
  




<!-- -->

* `XAResource.TMRESUME`

  Resume the transaction branch specified by `xid`. 
  **Note**

  

  Only previously suspended transaction branches can be resumed.
  




<!-- -->

* `OracleXAResource.ORATMSERIALIZABLE`

  Use the transaction ID `xid` to start a serializable transaction.
  




<!-- -->

* `OracleXAResource.ORATMREADONLY`

  Use the transaction ID `xid` to start a read-only transaction.
  




<!-- -->

* `OracleXAResource.ORATMREADWRITE`

  Use the transaction ID `xid` to start a read/write transaction.
  




<!-- -->

* `OracleXAResource.ORATRANSLOOSE`

  Use the transaction ID `xid` to start a loosely coupled transaction.
  




`TMNOFLAGS`, `TMJOIN`, `TMRESUME`, `ORATMSERIALIZABLE`, `ORATMREADONLY`, and `ORATMREADWRITE` are defined as static members of the `XAResource` interface and static members of the `OracleXAResource` class. `ORATMSERIALIZABLE`, `ORATMREADONLY `, and `ORATMREADWRITE` are isolation mode flags. The default isolation behavior is `READ COMMITTED`. 
**Note**



* As an alternative of the `start` method of `TMRESUME`, the transaction manager can forcibly convert to `OracleXAResource` and use the `resume(Xid xid)` method, which is an Oracle extension.

  

* If you use `TMRESUME`, you must also use `TMNOMIGRATE`, for example, `start(xid,XAResource.TMRESUME|OracleXAResource.TMNOMIGRATE)`. This prevents the `ORA 1002: fetch out of sequence` error for the application.

  

* If the isolation mode flag is incorrectly used, an exception with the error code `XAER_INVAL` is returned. In addition, the isolation level cannot be set for existing transactions. Therefore, you cannot use the isolation mode flag during restoration of global transactions. If you try to use the isolation mode flag during restoration of a transaction, an exception with the error code `ORA-24790` is returned.

  

* To avoid the `Error ORA 1002: fetch out of sequence` error message, include the `TMNOMIGRATE` flag in the start method, for example, `start(xid, XAResource.TMSUSPEND | OracleXAResource.TMNOMIGRATE);`.

  

* When you compile a transaction manager that uses these flags, note that all flags defined in `OracleXAResource` are Oracle extensions.

  




Note that, to create an appropriate transaction ID when a transaction branch is started, the transaction manager must know the distributed transaction that the transaction branch belongs to. The mechanism is implemented between the intermediate layer and the transaction manager. 

**End** 

This method closes the transaction branch specified by `xid`, that is, disassociates the transaction branch from its distributed transaction. Syntax:

```unknow
void end(Xid xid, int flags)
```



The `flags` parameter can be set to one of the following values:

* `XAResource.TMSUCCESS`

  The transaction branch has succeeded.
  




<!-- -->

* `XAResource.TMFAIL`

  The transaction branch has failed.
  




<!-- -->

* `XAResource.TMSUSPEND`

  Suspend the transaction branch specified by `xid`. By suspending a transaction branch, you can have multiple transaction branches in a single session. However, only one transaction branch can be activated at a given time. This method consumes more resources than running two sessions.
  




`TMSUCCESS`, `TMFAIL`, and `TMSUSPEND` are defined as static members of the `XAResource` class and static members of the `OracleXAResource` class. 
**Note**



* Different from using the `end` method of `TMSUSPEND`, the transaction manager can convert it to `OracleXAResource` by force and use the `suspend(Xid xid)` method, which is an Oracle extension.

  

* The XA feature for suspending transactions provides a way to switch between various transactions within a single JDBC connection. You can use the XA class to complete the operation.

  

* If you use TMSUSPEND, you must also use `TMNOMIGRATE`, for example, `end(xid,XAResource.TMSUSPEND| OracleXAResource.TMNOMIGRATE)`. This prevents the `ORA 1002: fetch out of sequence` error for the application.

  

* To avoid the `Error ORA 1002: fetch out of sequence` error, include the `TMNOMIGRATE` flag in the `end` method, for example,

  

* `end(xid, XAResource.TMSUSPEND | OracleXAResource.TMNOMIGRATE);`.

  

* When you compile a transaction manager that uses these flags, note that all flags defined in `OracleXAResource` are Oracle extensions.

  




**Prepare** 

Prepare for the changes to be executed in the transaction branch specified by `xid`. This is the first phase of a two-phase commit operation and ensures that the database can be accessed and changes can be committed. Syntax:

```unknow
int prepare (Xid xid)
```



This method returns an integer value, for example:

* `XAResource.XA_RDONLY`

  If the transaction branch runs only read-only operations (for example, a `SELECT` statement), this value is returned.
  




<!-- -->

* `XAResource.XA_OK`

  If the transaction branch runs all prepared updates that have no errors, this value is returned.
  




<!-- -->

* NA (no value returned)

  If any one of the updates to be run by the transaction branch encounters an error during preparation, no value is returned. In this case, an XA exception will be thrown.
  




`XA_RDONLY` and `XA_ OK` are defined as static members of `XAResource` interfaces and static members of the `OracleXAResource` class. 
**Note**



* Always call the `end` method on the branch before you call the `prepare` method.

  

* If a distributed transaction has only one branch, you do not need to call the `prepare` method. You can directly call the commit method for `OracleXAResource`.

  




**Commit** 

Commit the prepared changes in the transaction branch specified by `xid`. This is the second phase of a two-phase commit operation and is executed only after all transaction branches have been prepared. Syntax:

```unknow
void commit(Xid xid, boolean onePhase)
```



Set the `onePhase` parameter to one of the following values:

* `true`

  This value specifies that a one-phase protocol, instead of a two-phase protocol, is used when a transaction branch is committed. This protocol is applicable when the distributed transaction has only one transaction branch. In this case, the `prepare` step will be skipped.
  




<!-- -->

* `false`

  This value specifies that the two-phase protocol is used when a transaction branch is committed.
  




**Rollback** 

Roll back the prepared changes in the transaction branch specified by `xid`. Syntax:

```unknow
void rollback(Xid xid)
```



**Forget** 

This method tells the resource manager to forget the transaction branch that has been heuristically completed. Syntax:

```unknow
public void forget(Xid xid)
```



**Recover** 

The transaction manager calls this method during a recovery to get a list of transaction branches that are ready or heuristically completed. Syntax:

```unknow
public Xid[] recover(int flag) 
```


**Note**



`TMSTARTRSCAN`, `TMENDRSCAN`, or `TMNOFLAGS` will be ignored and other flag values will cause an exception.

The resource manager returns the `Xid` values of zero or several transaction branches that are ready or heuristically completed. If an error occurs during the operation, the resource manager returns the appropriate `XAException`. 
**Note**



To use the recovery method, you must have the `SELECT` privilege on `DBA_PENDING_TRANSACTIONS` and the `EXECUTE` privilege on SYS.DBMS_XA in the Oracle database server.

**isSameRM** 

To determine whether two `OracleXAResource` instances belong to the same resource manager, call the `isSameRM` method on one `OracleXAResource` instance, and specify another `OracleXAResource` instance as input. 

In the following example, assume that `xares1` and `xares2` are `OracleXAResource` instances:

```unknow
boolean sameRM = is1.isSameRM(is2);
```



Xid interface and Oracle implementation 
---------------------------------------------------------

The transaction manager creates transaction ID instances to coordinate the branches of distributed transactions. Each transaction branch is assigned a unique transaction ID, which includes the following information:

* Format identifier

  The format identifier specifies the Java transaction manager. For example, a format identifier `ORCL` may be included. This field must be specified. The size of a format identifier is 4 bytes.
  




<!-- -->

* Global transaction ID

  It is also called the distributed transaction ID component. The size of a global transaction ID is 64 bytes.
  




<!-- -->

* Branch qualifier

  It is also known as the transaction branch ID component. The size of a branch qualifier is 64 bytes.
  




The transaction IDs of all transaction branches of the same distributed transaction have the same 64-byte global transaction ID. However, the transaction ID of each transaction branch is unique. 

The XA transaction ID instance is an instance that implements the standard `javax.transaction.xa.Xid` interface class, which is a Java mapping of the structure of the X/Open transaction identifier XID. 

Oracle uses the `OracleXid` class in the `oracle.jdbc.xa` package to implement this interface. `OracleXid` instances are used only in the transaction manager and are transparent to the application or application server. 
**Note**



Oracle does not use `OracleXid` to call `OracleXAResource`. Instead, use any class that implements the `javax.transaction.xa.Xid` interface.

The transaction manager can use the following content when it creates an `OracleXid` instance:

```unknow
public OracleXid(int fId, byte gId[], byte bId[]) throws XAException
```



`fId` is the format identifier in the format of an integer. `gId []` is the global transaction ID, and `bId []` is the branch qualifier, both of which are arrays of bytes. 

The `Xid` interface specifies the following `getter` methods:

* `public int getFormatId()`

  

* `public byte[] getGlobalTransactionId()`

  

* `public type[] getBranchQualifier()`

  



