Create a database connection 
=================================================
#docslug#/connector-j/connector-j/V2.2.3/open-connection-to-database
OceanBase JDBC enables you to create a database connection by using DriverManager or a connection pool. 

DriverManager 
-------------------------------

We recommend that you use the DriverManager class to connect to OceanBase so that the OceanBase Client can be automatically loaded without configuration. Example:

```javascript
Connection connection = DriverManager.getConnection("jdbc:oceanbase://lt:2883/user=root&password=***");
```



Connection pool 
---------------------------------

You can also connect to OceanBase by using a connection pool. 

OceanBase Client supports two types of datasource pool:

* `OceanbaseDataSource`: the basic implementation of a database connection. A connection is created every time you call the `getConnection()` method.

  

* `OceanbasePoolDataSource`: the connection pool that accelerates database connections. The connection pool maintains connection resources. When a connection request is received, a connection is borrowed from the connection pool.

  




**Internal pool** 

The internal pool of a JDBC driver provides a very fast pool implementation and solves the following problems found in the Java pool:

* Two different connection states cleaning after release.

  

* Automatic release of inactive connections. In a Java pool, connections are automatically released to avoid problems that may occur when the server closes connections after the `@wait_timeout` threshold is reached. However, this is not always desired.

  




**External pool** 

You must configure the `com``.oceanbase.jdbc.Driver` class when you use an external connection pool. 

Example: Using the HikariCP JDBC connection pool 

```unknow
final HikariDataSource ds = new HikariDataSource();
ds.setMaximumPoolSize(10);
ds.setDriverClassName("com.oceanbase.jdbc.Driver");
ds.setJdbcUrl("jdbc:oceanbase://localhost:2883/db");
ds.addDataSourceProperty("user", "root");
ds.addDataSourceProperty("password", "OBClient");
ds.setAutoCommit(false);
```



