Overview of LOB data types 
===============================================
#docslug#/connector-j/connector-j/V2.2.7/lob-data-types
A large object (`LOB`) is a data item that is too large to be directly stored in a database table. The workaround is to store a locator in the database table. The locator points to the actual location of the data item. 

OceanBase Connector/J uses streams to support the following LOB data types:

* Binary large object (`BLOB`)

  This data type is used for unstructured binary data.
  



* Character large object (`CLOB`)

  This data type is used for character data.
  



* National character large object (`NCLOB`)

  This data type is used for national character data.
  




`BLOBs`, `CLOBs`, and `NCLOBs` are permanently stored in database tablespaces. All operations performed on these data types are controlled by transactions. 

PL supports the `LOB` data types. The JDBC API allows you to pass `IN` parameters to PL stored procedures or functions and retrieve `OUT` parameters or returned values.

`LOB` behaviors are different from those of other types of streaming data described in this chapter. `LOB` data is not directly stored in a table. Only the locator is. You can use the locator to manipulate the actual data, including reading and writing data as a stream. Even during the streaming transmission of LOB data, only necessary data is moved on the network. However, during the streaming transmission of `LONG` or `LONG RAW` data, all data are moved on the network. 

When you use a query to get one or more `BLOB`, `CLOB`, or `NCLOB` columns, OceanBase Connector/J transfers the data to the client so that the data stream can be accessed.