# OceanBase Connector/J V2.2.11

## Version information

* Release date: September 13, 2022

* Version: V2.2.11

## Overview

OceanBase Connector/J V2.2.11 supports the ArrayBinding, CallableStatement set by name, and setRemarksReportingLoadBalance features, and is more compatible with MySQL and Oracle. This version applies to general businesses. 


## Enhanced features

* OceanBase Connector/J supports the ArrayBinding feature in Oracle mode. In the PreparedStatement and PrepareExecute protocols, parameters are bound as arrays for batch execution to reduce the interaction cost between the server and the client. 
* OceanBase Connection/J supports the CallableStatement set by name feature in Oracle mode. You can assign values based on defined variable names. 
* OceanBase Connection/J supports the setRemarksReporting feature in Oracle mode. You can obtain remark information by using metadata class methods such as getColumns. 
* Compatibility with MySQL, such as the compatibility with the setObject() method and PreparedStatement caching, is improved in MySQL mode. 
* The getServerTZTablesImported query method is optimized to improve connection creation efficiency. 
* The XID-involved complex queries can be locally executed with higher performance. Corresponding options are provided for better control. 

## Fixed issues

* When both the PreparedStatement and PrepareExecute protocols are enabled, a SELECT statement that contains UNION ALL returns only one row of data and does not send the fetch request. 
* When the `useServerPrepStmts` parameter is set to `true` and the execution of the `createStatement()->excuteQuery()` statement fails, if you do not send the COM_CLOSE method to the server when you call the s.close() method, an error will be returned, indicating that the open cursors on the OBServer node exceed the maximum number allowed. 
* JDBC DatabaseMetaData.storesUpperCaseIdentifiers() and storesLowerCaseIdentifiers() return conflicting values in Oracle mode. 
