# OceanBase Connector/J V2.2.7

## Version information

- Release date: December 2, 2021
- Version: V2.2.7

## Overview

OceanBase Connector/J V2.2.7 is fully compatible with the `PREPARE_EXECUTE` protocol and the SEND PIECE feature that is based on the protocol. This version applies to general businesses.

## Enhanced features

- In Oracle mode, SEND PIECE is disabled by default. To enable SEND PIECE, you must set `useServerPrepStmts=true` and `usePieceData=true`.
- In Oracle mode, COM_STMT_PREPARE_EXECUTE supports batch execution.
- In Oracle mode, the PreparedStatement.setBytes performance is optimized, and the time consumed for processing 32 KB of data is reduced from 60 ms to 15 ms.
- The restrictions on Statement FetchSize are adjusted.
- The conditions for using useCursorFetch to retrieve the result set are adjusted.
- Streaming read is no longer supported in Oracle mode, which is consistent with native Oracle databases.
- A placeholder in the `name` format will be automatically converted into a question mark (`?`) for objects that are not procedures or functions. format.
- The default value of `cachePrepStmts` is changed to `false`, which is consistent with MySQL JDBC.

## Fixed issues

- In RAW queries in Oracle mode, the data returned by `stmt.setBinaryStream` is incomplete.
- In Oracle mode, an error is returned when `setClob` is set to `EmptyCLOB()`.
- An error is returned when Localdatetime is used together with a timestamp.
- If column aliases are used in a MyBatis environment, field mapping errors occur.
- If a CLOB is inherited from a BLOB, a type judgment error occurs when `getObject()` is called.
- Errors occur when OceanBase Connector/J is connected to OceanBase Database Proxy (ODP) by using the `COM_STMT_SEND_PIECE_DATA` protocol.
- If the data type of a CLOB column is set to string when `getObject()` is called, an error is returned.
- If `usePipelineAuth` is set to `true`, an error is returned.
- Errors related to the `rewriteBatch` parameter occur.
- `setPort` in `OceanBaseDataSource` does not take effect.
- If a CLOB column contains single quotation marks, the uploading will fail.
- In Oracle mode, hints are commented out.
