JDBC overview 
==================================

Java Database Connectivity (JDBC) is a Java standard that provides an API for connecting Java programs to a relational database. 

The JDBC standard was defined by Sun Microsystems and is implemented by the standard `java.sql` API. Providers can implement and extend it by using their own JDBC drivers. JDBC is a Call Level Interface (CLI) based on X/Open SQL. 

Features 
--------------------------

OceanBase JDBC consists of the following modules:

* DriverManager: loads the driver and returns the corresponding connections based on call requests.

  

* Driver: handles requests and returns the corresponding connections. It is loaded to DriverManager.

  

* Connection: communicates with a database, provides a connection environment for executing SQL statements and handling transactions, and creates and executes statements.

  




<!-- -->

* Statement:

  * Statements: executes a single SQL query or update.

    
  
  * PreparedStatement: executes cached statements with predetermined execution paths. Cached statements can be repeatedly executed to improve execution efficiency.

    
  
  * CallableStatement: executes stored procedures in a database.

    
  

  




<!-- -->

* SQLException: displays errors that occur when a database connection is created or closed or when an SQL statement is executed.

  




JDBC driver 
-----------------------------

The driver of OceanBase JDBC is OceanBase Client. It is a Type-4 driver that can directly communicate with a database engine through a local protocol. OBServer supports OceanBase Client and is fully compatible with MySQL Connector Java, the native JDBC driver for MySQL. OceanBase Client is fully compatible with MySQL JDBC. It automatically identifies whether OceanBase Database runs in MySQL or Oracle mode and supports both modes at the protocol layer. OceanBase Client is compatible with OceanBase Protocol V2.0. 
**Notice**



OBServer determines whether OceanBase Database runs in MySQL or Oracle mode based on the tenant name used when the JDBC driver is connected to the database. Tenants in Oracle mode can use only Oracle-compatible SQL syntax.

In addition to the standard JDBC API, OceanBase JDBC is also compatible with features of the Oracle driver. OBServer (Oracle mode) is compatible with most Oracle syntaxes.
