Cursor result sets 
=======================================
#docslug#/connector-j/connector-j/V2.2.0/cursor-result-set
A cursor is a data processing method that allows you to browse one or more rows forward or backward in a result set at a time, for you to view or process data in the result set. 

Result set types 
----------------------------------

JDBC result sets are divided into the following three types by configuration:

* General result sets: All results are obtained at a time. This achieves fast execution but is prone to cause `OOM` issues.

  

* Streaming result sets: Data is read from the socket row by row rather than all at a time. Streaming result sets can be used for `statement.setFetchSize(Integer.MIN_VALUE)`. A streaming result set facilitates fast execution, but the execution cannot be stopped once the reading starts. This is prone to cause network issues.

  

* Cursor result sets: To return a cursor result set, the database must support `COM_STMT_FETCH` and useServerPrepStmts must be set to true. Use the `useCursorFetch=true` syntax, and specify `fetchSize`. Cursor result sets result in slow execution and are available only when ODP V1.8.5 or later and OBServer V2.2.75 or later are used.

  




Use useCursorFetch 
------------------------------------

Perform the following steps to use `useCursorFetch`:

1. Establish a link and set parameters `useCursorFetch` and `useServerPrepStmts`. 

   ```unknow
   String url = "jdbc:mysql://host:port/test?useServerPrepStmts=false&useCursorFetch=true"conn = DriverManager.getConnection(url,"admin@mysql", "admin");
   ```

   




<!-- -->

2. Generate the Prepare statement. 

   ```unknow
   PreparedStatement pstmt = conn.prepareStatement("select * from tab",ResultSet.TYPE_FORWARD_ONLY, ResultSet.CONCUR_READ_ONLY);
   ```

   




<!-- -->

3. Set `fetchsize`. 

   ```unknow
   pstmt.setFetchSize(3);
   ```

   




<!-- -->

4. Execute the statement. 

   ```unknow
   ResultSet rs = pstmt.executeQuery();
   ```

   




<!-- -->

5. Cyclically obtain the next row of data. 

   ```unknow
   while (rs.next()) {}
   ```

   



