Reuse statement objects 
============================================
#docslug#/connector-j/connector-j/V2.2.7/reuse-statement-object
The Pooled Statement feature of OceanBase Connector/J allows applications to reuse `PreparedStatement` objects in the same way as using Connection objects. 

Multiple logical connections can reuse `PreparedStatement` objects in a transparent manner. 

Use pooled statements 
---------------------------------------

An application can call the `isPoolable` method from the `Statement` API to check whether the data source supports pooled statements. If `true` is returned, the application learns that `PreparedStatement` objects are under preparation. The application can also call the `setPoolable` method from the `Statement` API to request statements to be or not to be pooled. 

Reusing of a pooled statement must be completely transparent to the application. In other words, regardless of whether the `PreparedStatement` objects participate in statement pooling, the application code remains the same. If the application disables the`PreparedStatement` objects, you can call the `Connection.prepareStatement` method to reuse them. 

Disable pooled statements 
-------------------------------------------

An application can disable pooled statements and non-pooled statements in the same way. If a statement is disabled, it is no longer available for the application, regardless of whether it has been pooled or not. An error will occur if you attempt to reuse the statement. The only difference between disabling a pooled statement and a non-pooled statement lies in that the application cannot directly close a physical statement that is being pooled, which can be closed only by the pool manager. The `PooledConnection.closeAll` method closes all statements that run on a given physical connection to release the resources associated with the statements. 

You can close a pooled statement by using the following methods:

* `close`

  This `java.sql.Statement` API can be called by an application. If the statement is being pooled, this method closes the logical statement used by the application, but not the physical statement that is being pooled.
  

* `close`

  This `java.sql.Connection` API can be called by an application. The behavior of this method varies depending on whether the connection using the statement is pooled. 
  * Nonpooled connection

    This method closes the physical connection and all statements created by the connection. This is necessary because the garbage collection mechanism cannot detect when externally managed resources can be released.
    
  
  * Pooled connection

    This method closes the logical connection and the logical statements it returned, but opens the underlying `PooledConnection` object and all associated cache statements.
    
  

  

* `PooledConnection.closeAll`

  The connection pool manager calls this method to close all physical statements that are being pooled for the`PooledConnection` object.
  



