LOB data API 
=================================
#docslug#/connector-j/connector-j/V2.2.6/lob-data-interface
The OceanBase JDBC driver (OceanBase Client) provides a data API, which is a simplified mechanism for writing and reading the content of the entire LOB. 

The data API uses the standard JDBC methods (such as `getString` and `setBytes`) to read and write `LOB` data. The data API simplifies coding and accelerates data access. However, unlike the standard `java.sql.Blob`, `java.sql.Clob`, and `java.sql.NClob` APIs, the data API does not support random access, and the volume of accessed data cannot exceed 2,147,483,648 elements. 

Input 
-----------------------

The OceanBase JDBC driver extends the `setBytes`, `setBinaryStream`, `setString`, `setCharacterStream`, and `setAsciiStream` methods of `PreparedStatement`, to enhance the capability of using `BLOBs`, `CLOBs`, and `NCLOBs`. 

The maximum length of an SQL statement (for example, the `INSERT` statement) executed by the internal driver of the server is 4,000 bytes. This limit does not apply to PL statements. To bypass this limit, you can encapsulate the `INSERT` statement into a PL block by using the following method:

```unknow
BEGIN
 INSERT id, name INTO clob_emp VALUES(?,?);
END
```



Three input modes are available for large-scale data:

* Direct binding

  The binding size in this mode is limited, but the input efficiency is the highest. The data in all input columns is concatenated in a data block and then sent to the server. All data, including data involved in multiple executions of batch processing, is sent in a single network operation.
  




<!-- -->

* Stream binding

  The data is put at the end. Only one stream is sent at a time. Therefore, multiple round trips may be required.
  




<!-- -->

* `LOB` binding

  A temporary `LOB` is created. The data is copied to the `LOB` and bound to `LOB` locators. The temporary `LOB` is automatically released after execution. Multiple round trips are required for creating the temporary `LOB` and writing data to the `LOB`. The locators can be specified in batches.
  




Take note of the following instructions on the input modes for SQL statements:

* The `setBytes` and `setBinaryStream` methods use direct binding for data less than 4001 bytes.

  

* The `setBytes` and `setBinaryStream` methods use stream binding is used for data greater than 4000 bytes.

  

* The `setAsciiStream`, `setBinaryStream`, and `setCharacterStream` methods take a long argument as the form length and uses `LOB` binding for forms whose lengths are larger than 2,147,483,648. `LOB` binding is always used for forms where the length is not specified.

  

* The `setString`, `setCharacterStream`, and `setAsciiStream` methods use direct binding used for data smaller than 32,767 characters.

  

* The `setString`, `setCharacterStream`, and `setAsciiStream` methods use stream binding for data larger than 32,766 characters.

  

* The new form of the `setCharacterStream` method takes a `long` argument for length and uses `LOB` binding for length larger than 2147483647. `LOB` binding is always used for forms where the length is not specified.

  




Take note of the following instructions on the input modes for PL statements:

* The `setBytes` and `setBinaryStream` methods use direct binding for data smaller than 32,767 bytes.

  

* The `setBytes` and `setBinaryStream` methods use `LOB` binding for data larger than 32,766 bytes.

  

* The `setString`, `setCharacterStream`, and `setAsciiStream` methods use direct binding for data smaller than 32,767 bytes in the database character set. 

  **Note**

  

  The `setString` method is not applicable to BLOBs.
  

* The `setString`, `setCharacterStream`, and `setAsciiStream` methods use `LOB` binding for data larger than 32,766 bytes in the database character set.

  




Automatic switching of input modes affects some programs. Automatic switching may also result in additional parsing by the server, to cope with changes of parameter types. If the data size is changing around the threshold when a statement is repeatedly executed, the performance is affected. Switching to the stream binding mode affects batch processing. 

Output 
------------------------

The `getBytes`, `getBinaryStream`, `getString`, `getCharacterStream`, and `getAsciiStream` methods of the `ResultSet` and `CallableStatement` operations are extended to be used with `BLOBs`, `CLOBs`, or `OUT` parameters. These methods are applicable to any `LOBs` whose lengths are smaller than 2,147,483,648. 
**Note**



The `getString` and `getNString` methods cannot be used to retrieve the column values of `BLOBs`.

The data API accesses the `LOB` locators in the driver to perform operations without programming. You can enable `LOB` prefetch as needed to reduce or eliminate other database round trips.

You can read and write `BLOB` or `CLOB` data in the same streaming transmission mechanism as `LONG RAW` and `LONG` data. You can use the `defineColumnType(nn,Types.LONGVARBINARY)` or `defineColumnType(nn,Types.LONGVARCH` method on columns to read data and generate direct streams, which is similar to reading data from the `LONG RAW` or `LONG` columns. 

CallableSatement and IN OUT parameters 
--------------------------------------------------------

PL requires that the same Java types be used for input and output of `IN OUT` parameters. 

The `IN OUT CLOB` parameter of a stored procedure is expected to be set by using the `setString` method. The same types of `IN` and `OUT` parameters must be bound. If you are not sure about the data size, automatic switching of input modes will cause errors. For example, if you have learned that neither the input data nor the output data is larger than 32,766 bytes, you can use the `setString` method for input parameters, and register `OUT` parameters as `Types.VARCHAR` and use the `getString` method for output parameters. 

A better solution is to modify the stored procedure to have separate `IN` and `OUT` parameters. Example (original):

```unknow
CREATE PROCEDURE clob_obproc( cc IN OUT CLOB );
```



Example (modified):

```unknow
CREATE PROCEDURE clob_obproc( cc_in IN CLOB, cc_out OUT CLOB );
```



Another solution is to use container blocks for calls. The `clob_plproc` stored procedure can be wrapped with Java strings for `prepareCall` statements:

```unknow
"DECLARE cc_temp; BEGIN cc_temp := ?; clob_plproc( cc_temp); ? := cc_temp; END;"
```



In either solution, the `setString` method can be used for the first parameter, and the `registerOutParameter` method and `Types.CLOB` can be used for the second parameter. 

Size limit 
----------------------------

If you create a very large `byte` array or string, the performance of your Java memory management system may be affected. Read the information provided by the Java virtual machine (JVM) supplier about the impact of massive amounts of data elements on memory management, and try using a streaming API.
