Create and connect to a data source instance 
=================================================================

This topic describes how to create a data source instance for connecting to a database. Vendor-specific hard-coded property settings are required. 

Create a `OceanBaseDataSource` instance, initialize its connection properties, and obtain a connection instance, as in the following example:

```unknow
OceanBaseDataSource obds = new OceanBaseDataSource();
obds.setDriverType("oceanbase-client");
obds.setServerName("dlsun111");
obds.setNetworkProtocol("tcp");
obds.setDatabaseName("312");
obds.setPortNumber(1522);
obds.setUser("adam");
obds.setPassword("apple");
Connection conn = obds.getConnection();
```



Alternatively, you can choose to override the username and password, as in the following example:

```unknow
Connection conn = obds.getConnection("alice", "orange");
```



You can use the Java Naming and Directory Interface (JNDI) feature when you connect to a database by using the data source instance. The vendor-specified hard-coded property settings are only required in the code that binds the data source instance to the JNDI logical name. You can use logical names to create portable code when you create data source instances, and thereby obtain connection instances. 

Create a data source instance, register the data source instance with JNDI, and open the connection as follows:

1. Initialize data source properties

   Create a `OceanBaseDataSource` instance, and initialize its properties as required, as in the following example:

   ```unknow
   OceanBaseDataSource obds = new OceanBaseDataSource();
   obds.setDriverType("oceanbase-client");
   obds.setServerName("dlsun111");
   obds.setNetworkProtocol("tcp");
   obds.setDatabaseName("312");
   obds.setPortNumber(1522);
   obds.setUser("adam");
   obds.setPassword("apple");
   ```

   




<!-- -->

2. Register the data source instance

   After you initialize the connection properties of the `OceanBaseDataSource` instance, you can register the data source instance with JNDI, as in the following example:

   ```unknow
   Context obctx = new InitialContext();
   obctx.bind("jdbc/sampleobdb", obds);
   ```

   

   Call the JNDI `InitialContext()` constructor to create a Java object that references the initial JNDI naming text. The system properties (not shown) indicate the service provider to be used by JNDI. 

   The `obctx.bind` call binds the `OceanBaseDataSource` instance to a logical JNDI name. In this way, after `obctx.bind` is called, you can open the database connection anytime by using the logical name `jdbc/sampleobdb` and based on the `abds` property of the `OceanBaseDataSource` instance. The logical table name `jdbc/sampleobdb` is logically bound to this database. 

   The hierarchical structure of a JNDI namespace is similar to that of a file system. In this example, the JNDI name specifies the subcontext `jdbc` under the root naming context, and specifies the logical name `sampleobdb` within the subcontext `jdbc`. 

   The Context interface and the `InitialContext` class are included in the standard `javax.naming` package.
   




<!-- -->

3. Open a connection

   Use the logical JNDI name to perform a lookup and open a connection to the database that is logically bound to a JNDI name. To do this, you need to forcibly convert the search result (which can also be a Java `Object`) to `OceanBaseDataSource`, and then use the corresponding `getConnection` method to open the connection. 

   For example:

   ```unknow
   OceanBaseDataSource obdsconn = (OceanBaseDataSource)obctx.lookup("jdbc/sampleobdb");
   Connection conn = obdsconn.getConnection();
   ```

   



